Man: THERE IS A CERTAIN
SPECIES OF SCIENTIST THAT I
REFER TO AS BEING
NATURALLY OBSESSED.
THERES THIS ITCH OR THIS
ANXIETY THAT YOU HAVE THAT CAN
ONLY BE SUPPLIED BY KNOWING.
Woman: WHAT GETS ME TO WORK
EVERY DAY IS THAT MAYBE TODAY
"ILL HAVE THE ANSWER TO THIS
QUESTION, AND THEN ILL HAVE"
MORE QUESTIONS THAT
ILL BE ABLE TO ASK.
Second man: ITS LIKE
A CHALLENGE EVERY DAY.
YOU WANT TO KNOW WHY THIS
WORKS OR HOW THIS WORKS.
YOURE JUST DRIVEN TO FIND OUT.
Third man: ONE OF THE
BEST THINGS YOU CAN DO AS
A SCIENTIST IS SUFFER FROM
OBSESSIVE-COMPULSIVE DISORDER
SO THAT YOU BECOME OBSESSED
WITH A PROBLEM AND CANT STOP
WORKING ON IT UNTIL
YOU GET TO YOUR ANSWER.
"Announcer: MAJOR FUNDING FOR
""NATURALLY OBSESSED"" WAS"
PROVIDED BY...
ADDITIONAL FUNDING
WAS PROVIDED BY...
Man: IVE ALWAYS BEEN A
SCIENTIST IN TRAINING OR
"A WANNABE, AND THERE IS NO
SECOND CHANCE NOW FOR ME."
ALL MY BRIDGES ARE BURNT.
THIS IS THE LAST ONE.
I WAS THROWN OUT OF THE
LAB THAT I USED TO BE IN.
I WAS A BAD PERSON.
"I WAS JUST MEAN, AND I
WASNT VERY COOPERATIVE."
"SHE GOT TIRED OF IT, YEAH."
SHE BOOTED ME.
AFTER A MONTH OF ASKING PEOPLE
WHETHER OR NOT I COULD WORK
"IN THEIR LAB, I WENT
INTO LARRYS OFFICE."
"I TOLD HIM, ""HEY,
IM A STUDENT."
"""I NEED A PROFESSOR."
"""IM A LOOSE CANNON."
"""I GOT NO CASH."
"""IM GUARANTEED TO
CAUSE YOU PROBLEMS."
"WILL YOU HIRE ME?"""
"HES LIKE, ""YOU CAN COME NEXT
MONDAY"" AND COME TO WORK."
"AND I SAID, ""WELL, YOU SHOULD
REALLY--YOU REALLY NEED TO"
"TALK TO MY FORMER BOSS."""
"AND HE GOES, ""THERES NOTHING
THAT SHE CAN SAY THAT WOULD"
"MAKE ME NOT WANT
TO HIRE YOU."""
"I WAS LIKE, ""OH, MY GOD.
THIS GUY IS--HES BAD NEWS."""
"AND SO YEAH, SO THIS IS
HOW LARRY GETS THE CREW"
THAT HE HAS.
HE IGNORES GOOD ADVICE AND
ALL THESE WARNING SIGNS.
"Shapiro, voice-over:
YOU HAVE TO TRAIN YOUNG
SCIENTISTS IN ORDER TO"
PRODUCE THE SCIENCE.
"YOU KNOW, THE SYSTEM, I THINK,
WORKS VERY WELL BECAUSE YOU"
BRING IN THESE PEOPLE THAT
ARE JUST STARTING TO THINK
"ABOUT SCIENCE, AND SOMETIMES
THEY CATCH ON TO IT."
"A REAL FIRE LIGHTS UNDER THEM,
AND THEYLL PURSUE SOMETHING"
AS IF THEIR LIFE DEPENDS ON
IT BECAUSE THEY SEE THIS AS
THEIR FUTURE.
"IN OUR LAB, WE STUDY PROTEINS."
"OUR CURRENT RESEARCH IS ON
AMPK, A PROTEIN MOLECULE THAT"
CONTROLS THE BURNING AND
STORAGE OF FAT AND THAT MAY
PLAY A ROLE IN
OBESITY AND DIABETES.
WERE TRYING TO FIGURE OUT
WHAT AMPK LOOKS LIKE AND HOW
IT CONTROLS METABOLISM.
"SINCE PROTEIN MOLECULES ARE
SO SMALL, YOU HAVE TO PACK"
MILLIONS OF THEM TOGETHER
TO FORM A CRYSTAL.
THEN WE CAN EXAMINE THE
CRYSTALS USING X-RAYS FROM
A GIANT X-RAY GENERATOR
CALLED A SYNCHROTRON.
"THE PATTERN OF SPOTS
PRODUCED BY THE BENDING,"
"OR DIFFRACTION, OF THE X-RAYS
WHEN THEY STRIKE THE ATOMS"
IN THE CRYSTAL PRODUCES THE
DATA THAT WERE LOOKING FOR.
EVERYTHING IS UNKNOWN.
"THERES NO RECIPE, SO ITS A
REALLY TOUGH THING TO DO."
"Woman: UM, I DIDNT REALLY
SLEEP WELL, AND I HAD"
THIS DREAM.
"YOU ALL LOOKED AT ME AND SAID,"
"""NONE OF YOUR
CRYSTALS DIFFRACTED."""
I DIDNT SAY THAT.
IN MY DREAM. IN MY
DREAM YOU SAID THIS.
"Shapiro: YOU KNOW,
ALL STUDENTS,"
"BY THE END OF
THIS, HAVE HAD MANY"
DREAMS ABOUT CRYSTALS.
"OH, YEAH, I SEE
THEM IN MY SLEEP."
Man: THERE DOESNT SEEM
TO BE MUCH LOGIC IN IT.
"THESE PEOPLE COULDNT GET
THEIR PROTEIN TO CRYSTALLIZE,"
SO THEY ADDED PICKLE
JUICE TO THE DROPS.
[LAUGHTER]
FROM THE SWEET AND
SNAPPY VLASIC BRAND.
DOES THAT MAKE SENSE?
AN AMERICAN BRAND.
"YEAH, YEAH. THEYRE
GREAT, VLASIC."
"AND THEY FOUND THAT WITHOUT 1%
PICKLE JUICE, THEY DIDNT GET"
"ANY CRYSTALS, SO YOU JUST
HAVE TO TRY EVERYTHING."
"HEY, KIL, ITS ORGANIZED
ACCORDING TO THE HEAVY ATOM."
"Kil, voice-over: WHAT DO I
SAY TO SOMEONE WHOS, LIKE,"
"""WHY ARE YOU DOING THIS""?"
I DO IT BECAUSE ITS INTERESTING.
"I MEAN, JUST THINKING
ABOUT HOW THINGS"
WORK AND HOW TO TEST DIFFERENT
IDEAS AND TO COME UP
WITH BETTER WAYS TO DO
THINGS IS--THATS JUST COOL.
Woman: WHATS EXCITING IS
JUST THE GRAND PICTURE.
ITS THE BIG IDEAS.
THE POSSIBILITIES ARE ENDLESS.
"YOU KNOW, AS A GRADUATE
STUDENT, ALL WE HAVE IS DATA."
"THATS IT. YOU KNOW, ALL WE
HAVE ARE THESE EXPERIMENTS."
SO YOU MIGHT AS WELL
GET EXCITED ABOUT THEM
AND BE OPTIMISTIC.
Shapiro: SOMETIMES STUDENTS
ARE SURPRISED AT HOW MUCH IT
TAKES TO DO THIS AND THAT
THERE ARE SO MANY FAILURES
BEFORE ONE GETS TO A SUCCESS.
SOME PEOPLE HAVE SAID THAT THE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN SUCCESS
AND FAILURE IN
SCIENCE ISNT SO BIG.
"IN EITHER CASE, YOU TRY
EVERYTHING YOU POSSIBLY CAN."
"IN THE CASE OF SUCCESS,
YOU JUST TRIED THEM"
IN THE RIGHT ORDER TO GET
TO THE ONE THAT WORKED.
Townley: YEAH. YOUVE
EITHER GOT TO BE A FOOL
OF AN OPTIMIST.
YEAH.
OR YOU CAN JUST BE A FOOL
AND NOT REALLY KNOW HOW
HARD IT IS.
ALL RIGHT. GOOD MORNING.
MY PIECE CONTINUES.
"I CHECKED THE WEBSITE TODAY,
AND NOBODY PUBLISHED THE"
"CRYSTAL STRUCTURE THAT IM
AFTER, AND SO RIGHT NOW IM"
GONNA START DOING
ANOTHER EXPERIMENT.
BACTERIAL STRAIN 790.
THIS IS THE ONE IM
GONNA GRADUATE WITH.
AMPK IS A GREAT TARGET.
"LOTS AND LOTS OF PEOPLE WANT
TO KNOW WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE,"
AND IM HERE.
LARRYS PAYING ME.
"GOT ALL THIS EXPERTISE, MAN."
"FOR MY THESIS PROJECT, IM
TRYING TO DISCOVER HOW"
AMPK WORKS.
ITS A SWITCH THAT TURNS
OUR APPETITES ON AND OFF.
HOW DOES THIS SWITCH WORK?
HOW DOES IT KNOW WEVE RUN OUT
OF ENERGY AND NEED TO EAT?
THATS WHAT I NEED TO FIND
OUT BEFORE ANYONE ELSE.
AH.
"IF THIS THING GOES, ILL HAVE
MORE OPPORTUNITIES THAN I EVER"
"DREAMED OF, AND THATS
NOT AN OVEREXAGGERATION."
THIS IS THE ONE THATS GONNA
GET ME OUT OF HERE--RTB1610.
ITS GONNA LEAD TO
DIFFRACTING CRYSTALS.
"Shapiro, voice-over: THE
THING IS, EACH PROTEIN"
MOLECULE IS A UNIQUE
AND HIGHLY SPECIALIZED
LITTLE MACHINE.
THERES A STEEP LEARNING CURVE
AND A LOT OF TRIAL AND ERROR
BEFORE THE STUDENTS DISCOVER
THE PRECISE CONDITIONS THAT
ALLOW THE PROTEIN
TO CRYSTALLIZE.
"WHEN THEY PRODUCE A PROMISING
CRYSTAL, WE TAKE IT TO THE"
"X-RAY BEAM AT THE
SYNCHROTRON, AND THATS"
THE MOMENT OF TRUTH.
"IF THE CRYSTAL DIFFRACTS
X-RAYS WELL, WE CAN USE THE"
"DATA TO CALCULATE THE POSITION
OF EACH ATOM IN THE PROTEIN,"
CREATING A 3-DIMENSIONAL MODEL
THAT LOOKS LIKE A GIANT TINKER
TOY WITH A LOT OF MOVING PARTS.
"ONCE WE KNOW THE STRUCTURE,
WE CAN TRY TO FIGURE OUT HOW"
THE PROTEIN WORKS.
"Carroll: YOU CAN TRY A
THOUSAND DIFFERENT THINGS,"
AND A THOUSAND DIFFERENT
PEOPLE HAVE A THOUSAND
"DIFFERENT WAYS FOR YOU TO
DO IT, BUT NONE OF THEM IS"
"GUARANTEED TO WORK, AND IN
THE END, NO MATTER WHAT YOURE"
"DOING, ITS POSSIBLE THAT ITS
AN INTRACTABLE PROBLEM AND IT"
WILL NEVER WORK.
Shapiro: BUT THEYRE NOT
REALLY NEEDLE-LIKE ANYMORE.
THEYRE BECOMING THICKER.
"DONT FORGET THIS IS
ONE HURDLE, RIGHT?"
"LIKE, YOU GROW GOOD CRYSTALS,
AND THEN--THEN SEE HOW MANY"
"DIFFRACT, RIGHT?"
ITS LIKE 1 IN 10.
Shapiro: ARE THEY BETTER?
Carroll: THEYRE ON THE
ROAD TO BEING BETTER.
THEY CERTAINLY ARE.
ITS ON THE ROAD.
YEAH.
RIGHT? YEAH.
WHAT IS THIS Ph.D. DEGREE?
THATS ONE OF THE LAST THINGS
THAT WE HAVE IN OUR CULTURE
WHERE THERES AN APPRENTICESHIP.
"YOURE AN APPRENTICE TO THE
ADVISOR AS A GRADUATE STUDENT,"
"AND THATS VERY--ITS VERY
UNSTRUCTURED, AND YOU DEPEND"
VERY MUCH ON THE ADVICE
THAT THE ADVISOR GIVES YOU.
I DEFINITELY THINK THATS A
HARD THING TO DO WHEN THINGS
ARENT WORKING.
YOURE NOT LEARNING
A BUNCH OF FACTS.
WHAT YOURE REALLY LEARNING IS
HOW TO TAKE A VERY WIDE RANGE
OF PROBLEMS AND ADDRESS THEM.
YOU LEARN HOW TO SOLVE
PROBLEMS THAT YOUVE NEVER
"SEEN BEFORE, AND YOUVE
GOT A HUGE TOOL KIT."
"OH, MY GOD."
AY-AH.
"Shapiro, voice-over: WITH
THE STUDENTS, THE TECHNIQUES"
THEYRE USING ARE PROBLEMATIC
FOR THEM SIMPLY BECAUSE THEY
DONT KNOW THEM
YET AND THEYRE NOT
EXPERIENCED IN THEM.
"IN A WAY, YOU CAN THINK
OF THIS BEING LIKE A YOUNG"
"VIOLINIST WHO HAS DIFFICULTY
WITH HIS TECHNIQUE, CANT"
"EXPRESS HIS ART APPROPRIATELY,
BUT THE MASTER WHO HAS"
ABSOLUTELY NO PROBLEM WITH
TECHNIQUE CAN BEAUTIFULLY
EXPRESS HIS ART BECAUSE THATS
ALL THAT HE HAS TO CONCENTRATE
"ON, AND I THINK THAT AS THE
STUDENTS GO ALONG, THEY"
APPROACH THAT LEVEL.
[VIOLINS PLAYING]
"SO LARRY PUSHED ME, AND I DID
AN EXPERIMENT, SO IM GONNA GO"
AND LOOK IN A THOUSAND
DIFFERENT DROPS RIGHT NOW.
"Shapiro: ROB GOT CRYSTALS
OF THIS PROTEIN A YEAR AGO,"
"AND THE CRYSTALS LOOK
BEAUTIFUL, BUT THEYRE TOO"
DISORDERED TO DIFFRACT X-RAYS.
AND SO THEN WE WENT BACK TO
THE DRAWING BOARD AND
REENGINEERED DNA MOLECULES
THAT ENCODE DIFFERENT PIECES
OF THIS PROTEIN SO THAT IT CAN
"FORM COMPACT, HARD CRYSTALS
THAT DIFFRACT X-RAYS."
"THERE ARE A LOT OF
THINGS YOU CAN DO,"
BUT JUST JIGGERING
THE pH A LITTLE BIT.
"YEAH, pH PRECIPITANT, BUT IM
ASKING YOU, SHOULD I TRY TO"
SCREW AROUND WITH
THE MAGNESIUM OR NOT?
JUST LEAVE IT?
"LEAVE IT AT 50, MAYBE?"
I WOULD CHANGE ONE
THING AT A TIME.
"YEAH, OK. SO ILL
DO A pH VERSUS..."
YEAH. I WOULD CHANGE ONE THING
AT A TIME AND JUST SMALL
"CHANGES IN pH, HALF
A UNIT ON EACH SIDE."
"AND SHOULD I USE THE
SAME BUFFER, OR CAN I"
SWITCH BUFFERS?
CHANGE ONE THING AT A TIME.
ITS NOT EASY TO DO THIS
DAY AFTER DAY AND FAIL DAY
AFTER DAY.
IT TOOK ME 2 1/2 YEARS OF
DOING EXPERIMENTS AND HAVING
THEM NOT WORK BEFORE I
GOT MY FIRST CRYSTAL.
DO I FEEL INTENSE COMPETITION?
"YEAH, I DO."
LARRY KEEPS TELLING ME
TO SOLVE THIS STRUCTURE.
"I KEEP TELLING HIM, ""WELL,
WERE GONNA GET SCOOPED."""
"HES LIKE, ""DONT
WORRY ABOUT THAT."""
"ITS, LIKE, TAUNTING ME."
"IM THROWING MY BEST IDEAS AT
THIS PROBLEM, AND IT JUST--"
"NOTHING, MAN."
"YOU KNOW, THESE ARE THE LAST
PLASMIDS IM GONNA MAKE AS"
A GRAD STUDENT.
"YEAH. NO, I KNOW."
HOW MANY TIMES HAVE I SAID THAT?
IF I HAD A NICKEL FOR
EVERY TIME I HEARD THAT...
"YEAH, DUDE."
MAN. WELCOME TO THE FUNHOUSE.
WATCH THIS.
"OH, MY."
WHOO.
MAN.
"Townley, voice-over: GETTING
A Ph.D. IS 2,000 DAYS, AND"
"SO MUCH OF IT, AND
SCIENTISTS ACROSS THE"
"WORLD WILL SAY, ""YOU
KNOW, ITS NOT ALWAYS"
"""ABOUT THE SMARTS."
"""ITS NOT ALWAYS
ABOUT THE CREATIVITY."
"ITS ABOUT STICKING TO IT."""
Woman: HE REACHED A POINT IN
WHICH ITS A LOT HARDER THAN
"YOU EXPECTED, AND YOU WANT
TO JUST--YOU WANT TO LET GO,"
"FALL, STOP, BUT YOU CANT
BECAUSE--THERE ARE SO MANY"
"REASONS WHY YOU CANT, AND YOU
HAVE TO SORT OF GATHER THAT"
"EXTRA LITTLE BIT OF ENERGY,
KIND OF GET THROUGH"
THE TOUGH PART.
Townley: SO I ENDED UP
GRADUATING FROM THE UNIVERSITY
"OF ILLINOIS WHEN I WAS 28,
AND I GUESS AT THAT POINT I"
HAD DROPPED OUT 3 TIMES--ONCE
TO BECOME A BUSBOY AND THEN
ONCE TO JOIN THE NAVY.
I WANT TO PUT MY BOOT PRINTS
ON THE TOP OF THE WORLD.
THATS GONNA BE KICK-ASS.
"IF I EVER HAVE A BABY, IF MY
WIFE AND I EVER HAVE KIDS,"
IM SURE THATS GONNA BE KICK-ASS.
"I KNOW WHEN I GET MY
Ph.D., THATS GONNA BE"
"KICK-ASS, MAN."
I STARTED DREAMING ABOUT IT
IN A BUNK ON A BATTLESHIP
IN THE MIDDLE OF
THE [INDISTINCT].
SO THAT WAS MY DREAM
THROUGHOUT WHEN I WAS
"IN THE ""NAV"" WAS TO COME BACK
AND GO TO COLLEGE, GET A Ph.D."
AND DO SCIENCE.
SO...IVE HAD THAT DREAM
FOR QUITE A WHILE.
"Shapiro: I HAD PARENTS WHO
WERE VERY INTO THEIR CAREERS,"
"AND I HAD MY OWN LITTLE
REBELLION, AND I WENT TO WORK"
"IN A LABORATORY, AND I
WAS LEARNING TO THINK"
ABOUT SCIENCE THE WAY THAT
SCIENTISTS THINK ABOUT IT.
THERE WAS NO WAY THAT I
COULD GO BACK TO HIGH SCHOOL.
"AT 16 YEARS OLD, I WENT OUT TO
CALTECH, WHERE I PRETTY MUCH"
STAYED IN THE LAB WHEN
I SHOULD HAVE BEEN DOING
CLASSROOM LEARNING.
AND A LOT OF PEOPLE STOOD
UP FOR ME BECAUSE THEY ALSO
BELIEVED THAT IT WAS THE...
I DONT KNOW.
I GUESS IN A SENSE THAT THE
REVERENCE FOR THE SCIENCE--THAT
WAS IMPORTANT AND NOT THE TICK
MARKS ON THE PIECES OF PAPER.
"Carroll, voice-over: THERE ARE
LOTS OF PEOPLE WHO COME HERE"
WHO PROBABLY COULD HAVE DONE
OTHER THINGS AND MADE A LOT
MORE MONEY.
"IN FACT, IM SURE OF IT."
WE TALK ABOUT IT FREQUENTLY
AND COMPLAIN TO EACH OTHER
"ABOUT HOW WE COULD BE
MAKING $200,000 OR $300,000"
ON WALL STREET.
"BUT I COULDNT BE
HAPPIER, RIGHT?"
"LIKE, I WAKE UP, I
DO SOMETHING I LOVE."
"AT THE END OF 4, 5, 6 YEARS
HERE, I END UP WITH A Ph.D."
FROM COLUMBIA.
WHAT COULD BE BETTER THAN THAT?
WERE GOING TO THE SYNCHROTRON
ON SATURDAY OR SUNDAY.
"THIS SATURDAY, THIS SUNDAY?"
PONY ON THE TRACK.
"YEAH, I KNOW."
YOU GOT BIG FATTIES?
I GOT SOME CRYSTALS
THAT I WASNT EXPECTING.
"COOL. GOOD LUCK, MAN."
"YEAH, THANKS."
"YEAH. THE RACE IS
ON, AND IM BEHIND."
"SOME PEOPLE HAVE LITTLE,
LIKE, VOODOO DOLLS THAT THEY"
PUT IN THE CRYSTALLIZATION
ROOM BECAUSE THEY THINK--
"YOU KNOW, WHO KNOWS WHATS
GOING TO HAPPEN, RIGHT?"
ITS OUT OF YOUR CONTROL.
BUT IVE NOTICED THAT
IF YOU MOUNT CRYSTALS
WHILE YOURE LISTENING
"TO A PARTICULAR PIECE
OF MUSIC, IN FACT,"
"CALLED ""YOSHIMI
BATTLES THE PINK ROBOTS""
FROM THE FLAMING LIPS,"
THEN THE CRYSTALS
TEND TO DIFFRACT.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[INDISTINCT CHATTER]
Flaming Lips: HER
NAME IS YOSHIMI
SHES A BLACK BELT IN KARATE
OK.
LOOKS GOOD.
WORKING FOR THE CITY
SHE HAS TO DISCIPLINE HER BODY
CAUSE SHE KNOWS THAT
ITS DEMANDING
TO DEFEAT THOSE EVIL MACHINES
I KNOW SHE CAN BEAT THEM
"OH, YOSHIMI"
THEY DONT BELIEVE ME
Shapiro: THIS IS
THE SYNCHROTRON.
Flaming Lips: BUT
YOU WONT LET THOSE
"ROBOTS EAT ME, YOSHIMI"
"Carroll: THE SYNCHROTRON
IS THE BE ALL, END ALL."
ITS THE DECIDER.
IT MAKES DECISIONS ON
YOUR LIFE AND YOUR CAREER.
"PUT THINGS IN FRONT OF IT,
AND IT DECIDES FOR YOU."
"YOU KNOW, THERES NO
INTERMEDIATE STEPS."
ITS ALL OR NOTHING.
"YOUVE EITHER GOT A STRUCTURE
AND ITS GOOD, OR YOUVE"
GOT NOTHING.
Flaming Lips: THEY
DONT BELIEVE ME
BUT YOU WONT LET THOSE
"ROBOTS EAT ME, YOSHIMI"
"OH, NO."
I DONT GET IT.
THAT SUCKS.
DAMN IT.
WHAT IS THE PROBLEM?
"THERES NOTHING.
THERES, LIKE, NOTHING."
I KNOW THAT YOUVE LEARNED AN
ENORMOUS AMOUNT IN THE LAST
YEAR OR SO.
ITS ALL ABOUT FAILURE.
"I MEAN, YOU LEARN SO
MUCH FROM FAILURE."
"YOU LEARN ALMOST NOTHING
FROM SUCCESS, RIGHT?"
RIGHT.
Carroll: WHAT MAKES US PATIENT
IS THAT THE PROTEIN THAT WERE
"WORKING ON, THEYRE GONNA
BE--THEYLL BE BIG."
"THIS COULD BE A TIER ONE
JOURNAL, AND THAT CAN MAKE OR"
BREAK A CAREER.
"I MEAN, IF YOU COME
OUT OF GRADUATE"
"SCHOOL WITH A ""SCIENCE"" OR A
""NATURE"" PAPER, IT JUST OPENS"
DOORS FOR YOU.
"Shapiro: MY FIRST ""NATURE""
PAPER, YOU KNOW--THATS YOUR"
"FIRST GREAT THING--MY FIRST
GREAT THING IN SCIENCE,"
AND I HADNT SPOKEN TO MY
FATHER FOR A LONG TIME.
"HE WAS A SURGEON, AND SO HE
UNDERSTOOD SCIENCE TO SOME"
"DEGREE, OR AT LEAST SUCCESS
IN SCIENCE, AND I HAD KIND"
"OF AVOIDED TALKING TO HIM FOR
ABOUT A YEAR BEFORE, PROBABLY"
BECAUSE I KNEW I WOULD HAVE
THIS AND I COULD KIND OF SEE
"HIM AND SAY, ""LOOK.
WELL, YOU SEE?"
"IM DOING OK NOW.
THINGS ARE GOOD."""
"AND THEN, BELIEVE IT OR NOT,
ON THE VERY DAY THAT MY PAPER"
"WAS PUBLISHED IN ""NATURE,""
HE DIED--THE SAME MORNING."
IT WAS LIKE AN
UNBELIEVABLE CRUEL JOKE.
"I THINK MARCH 23,
1995, I THINK,"
"AND SO I NEVER--YOU KNOW,
ITS ANOTHER THING WHERE I"
NEVER COMPLETELY GOT TO
TASTE THE TRIUMPH YOU EXPECT
FROM HAVING GREAT
THINGS REALLY WORK OUT.
IVE SPENT MOST OF MY LIFE
TRYING TO BECOME THE KIND
"OF SCIENTIST THAT I AM
NOW, AND IM NOT A QUARTER"
"OF THE WAY YET TO WHERE
I FINALLY WANT TO BE,"
AND WELL SEE.
"I MEAN, ITS ALL I AM."
I WOULDNT KNOW WHAT TO DO
UNLESS I WAS A SCIENTIST.
"ONE THING ABOUT THE PEOPLE
I WORK WITH--IN THIS CASE,"
IM NOT TALKING ABOUT MY
LAB MEMBERS BUT THE OTHER
FACULTY MEMBERS.
I GENUINELY ADMIRE AND
RESPECT SO MANY OF THEM.
THE SENIOR FACULTY HERE
REALLY MODELS FOR THE TYPE
"OF SCIENTIST I WANT TO BE,
AND ONE THING IS, I DONT WANT"
"TO DISAPPOINT THEM, YOU KNOW?"
I REALLY DONT WANT
TO DISAPPOINT THEM.
"SO WITH THAT, ID LIKE TO
THANK YOU, AND ID BE HAPPY TO"
TAKE ANY QUESTIONS.
[APPLAUSE]
"HEY, KIL."
"ROB, HOWS IT GOING, MAN?"
IVE MISSED YOU.
"WE MADE IT TO THE TOP, DUDE."
DID YOU?
YEAH. IT WAS HUMBLING.
IT WAS... IT WAS HARD.
IT WAS AWESOME.
TETON CENTRAL?
GRAND TETONS. IT WAS HUMBLING.
I LEARNED A LOT.
HOW SO?
I HAD A VERY ACUTE OPPORTUNITY
TO REALIZE THAT I SAW MYSELF
"THROUGH THE LENS OF CLIMBING,
YOU KNOW, AND SO IF I WASNT"
"MOVING GRACEFULLY WITH SPEED
OVER DANGEROUS ROCK, THEN I"
WAS JUST A HACK.
"HOW ARE THINGS GOING, GABE?"
PRETTY GOOD. I CANT COMPLAIN.
"I GOT OVER YESTERDAYS
FAILURE, AND IM BEATING"
"THE EXPERIENCE--RIGHT, TODAY."
"COOL. DO YOU NEED TO
GET INTO MINUS 20, GABE?"
[INDISTINCT]
COOL.
"Cubberley, voice-over:
THINGS WILL BE SO MUCH MORE"
"INTERESTING WITH A CRYSTAL
STRUCTURE AND WITH, YOU KNOW,"
"THE TYPES OF EXPERIMENTS
THAT CAN BE ADDRESSED,"
THE QUESTIONS THAT CAN
BE ASKED ONCE YOU HAVE
A CRYSTAL STRUCTURE.
"I WAS A TECHNICIAN IN A
LAB IN COLORADO, UNIVERSITY"
"OF COLORADO, FOR TWO YEARS,
BUT HAVING IT AS A JOB,"
"BEING A TECHNICIAN, WAS A
LOT DIFFERENT THAN BEING"
A STUDENT.
IM SO MUCH MORE INDEPENDENT
AS A STUDENT THAN I EVER WAS
"AS A TECHNICIAN, AND THATS
HARD TO GET USED TO, THAT IM"
"RESPONSIBLE FOR EVERYTHING
I DO, ALL MY ACTIONS."
"NOBODY REALLY CARES WHAT IM
DOING, WHEN IM DOING IT,"
AND ITS HARD TO GET USED
TO BUT REALLY IMPORTANT.
"Shapiro, voice-over: I DONT
TELL THE GRADUATE STUDENTS"
WHAT TO DO.
I WANT TO GIVE THEM A LOT OF
FREEDOM BECAUSE I THINK THAT
TO DO SCIENCE--AND WERE
TRYING TO TRAIN INDEPENDENT
SCIENTISTS HERE--THEY HAVE TO
LEARN TO BECOME INDEPENDENT
AND THINK ON THEIR OWN AND NOT
RELY ON AN ADVISOR SO MUCH.
"WELL, HOW MUCH
PROTEIN DO YOU HAVE?"
"YEAH, I THINK I ENDED
UP GETTING ABOUT 6 MGS."
"WHAT DID YOU SCREEN
ON THIS, BY THE WAY?"
I JUST DID HAMPTON ONE AND TWO.
"Shapiro: OH, GREAT."
SO THIS IS THE BEGINNING.
AND SO THESE ARE BETTER THAN
PRETTY MUCH ANYTHING YOUVE
SEEN BEFORE.
"YEAH, BY A LOT."
THATS FANTASTIC.
"YEAH, AND WOW, MAN."
WOW.
ALL RIGHT. CHAMPAGNE AT 3:00.
I DONT KNOW.
"YOU WANT TO DO CHAMPAGNE TOO
MUCH, BUT CHAMPAGNE WHEN WE"
HAVE DIFFRACTION.
ALL RIGHT. SOUNDS GOOD.
BUT THATS GONNA GO.
"THANKS FOR YOUR HELP, DUDE."
THIS IS AWESOME.
IM GONNA MAKE IT.
IVE SEEN SCIENTISTS WHO GO
INTO THE LAB AND THEY LOOK
"DOWN INTO THEIR DISHES AND
THEY YELL, ""EUREKA!"", RIGHT?"
"WHEN THEY SEE THE RESULT,
THEY KNOW WHAT IT MEANS,"
"AND ITS BEEN A HARD
TIME COMING, RIGHT?"
"WELL, THAT HAS
HAPPENED TO ME TODAY."
"I HAD A EUREKA MOMENT, AND
I WOULD HAVE YELLED IT OUT"
"LOUD, BUT THERE WAS
TOO MUCH GOING ON."
I WENT TO THE DROP THAT I HAD
SET UP WHERE I HAD ANTICIPATED
"THE IMPROVEMENT WOULD
MANIFEST ITSELF, AND IT WAS"
"THERE, AND SO..."
THIS IS A REALLY
EMOTIONAL TIME FOR ME.
"IF THE CRYSTALS ARE
REPRODUCIBLE, IF THEY GROW,"
THEN WHAT ILL DO IS ILL TRY
TO GET AS MANY AS I CAN UNDER
"AS MANY DIFFERENT CONDITIONS
AS I CAN, AND THEN WELL LOAD"
THEM UP AND TAKE THEM
TO THE SYNCHROTRON.
Flaming Lips: BUT
YOU WONT LET THOSE
"ROBOTS EAT ME, YOSHIMI"
THEY DONT BELIEVE ME
BUT YOU WONT LET THOSE
ROBOTS DEFEAT ME
"Townley: OH. WHATS
HAPPENING IN THERE, JASON?"
I DONT KNOW IF ITS--I
GUESS ITS A PROTEIN.
YOU DONT EVEN KNOW IF
THATS A DIFFRACTION?
I DONT KNOW IF
THATS DIFFRACTION.
SO YOURE SAYING WE GOT--
"THESE, IM PRETTY SURE,
ARE PROTEIN DIFFRACTIONS."
ITS JUST A COMPLETE MESS.
"ITS--I MEAN, THIS ISNT
IN ANY WAY USABLE."
USABLE.
"ALL RIGHT, THERE YOU HAVE
IT, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN."
ALL OF THE EXCITEMENT THAT
WEVE GENERATED FOR THE LAST 3
WEEKS IS JUST A PRELUDE
TO ANOTHER 2 1/2 YEARS
OF SILENT MISERY.
[INDISTINCT]
"Carroll, voice-over: SCIENCE
ISNT DONE IN A VACUUM, AND
EVERYTHING IN SOME"
SENSE OR ANOTHER
IS A COLLABORATION.
"EVENTUALLY EVERYONE GETS
STUCK, AND SO THE ONLY WAY TO"
DO IT IS BY TALKING TO OTHER
PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN WHERE YOU
"ARE AND CAN GIVE YOU A
REALISTIC, LOGICAL APPROACH TO"
TAKE TO SOLVE THAT PROBLEM.
LARRY IS WATCHING OUT FOR
DIFFERENT THINGS THAT YOU
"COULD BE DOING AND HAS SORT OF
THE SAME GOALS THAT YOU DO,"
I.E. SUCCESS AND SOMETHING
THAT WOULD BE EXCITING
FOR EVERYONE.
"A LOT OF PEOPLE WANT TO SWING
FOR THE FENCES, AND THEY KNOW,"
"""I DO ONE MORE EXPERIMENT
AND IT MIGHT JUST WORK"
"""BEAUTIFULLY, AND
THAT MIGHT BE THE ONE,"
"AND THEN I DONT HAVE TO WORRY
ABOUT ANY OF THIS, OLD CHUMP,"""
"BUT OFTEN IT DOESNT WORK
THAT WAY, AND YOU HAVE TO"
REALLY SLOG THROUGH IT AND
FIGURE OUT EVERYTHING THAT
DIDNT WORK AND TRY TO COME TO
AN INTELLIGENT PLAN ON THAT.
RIGHT. ONE MORE EXPERIMENT
COULD BE THE ONE THAT WORKS.
THATS RIGHT.
AND YOU ONLY NEED ONE TO WORK
FOR ALL OF THIS TO GO AWAY.
ITS BEEN A YEAR SO FAR.
WHATS A YEAR?
THIS IS--YOURE DOING GREAT.
THERES NO REASON AT ALL.
"IM JUST A LITTLE
CONCERNED, I GUESS."
"Carroll, voice-over: OBVIOUSLY
I HAVE A LIFE OUTSIDE OF GRAD"
"SCHOOL, AND BEING A STUDENT
HERE AND MAKING $24,000 A YEAR"
IS NOT CONDUCIVE TO US MOVING
UP IN THE WORLD AND HAVING
A FAMILY AND ALL THE DIFFERENT
THINGS THAT I WANT TO
ACCOMPLISH LATER IN LIFE.
ITS POSSIBLE THAT THESE
THINGS COULD NEVER BE
"SOLVED, YOU KNOW?"
"ALTHOUGH IF YOUVE GOTTEN THIS
CLOSE, ISNT THAT A GOOD SIGN?"
IT IS.
OK.
"YEAH. NO, I THINK ITS GONNA
WORK, AND ITLL PROBABLY WORK"
"IN THE NEXT FEW MONTHS,
ACTUALLY--3, 4 MONTHS,"
ESPECIALLY IF I--
THATS WHAT YOU SAID 3
OR 4 MONTHS AGO. NO.
IM SURE I DID.
[INDISTINCT CHATTER]
"Cubberley, voice-over: IVE
BEEN AGGRESSIVE IN ASKING"
FOR HELP ON HOW TO DESIGN
EXPERIMENTS AND WHAT
THE PROPER CONTROLS AND
THINGS LIKE THAT ARE.
"WHAT I HAVENT BEEN AGGRESSIVE
ENOUGH ABOUT, I THINK,"
IS GETTING HELP FROM THE BOSS.
IM DEFINITELY GETTING
MORE AND MORE DISENCHANTED
WITH GRUNGE WORK.
"I REALLY DONT THINK I CAN
TAKE THE UPS AND DOWNS OF,"
"YOU KNOW, FAILURE AND SUCCESS."
IM NOT--I DONT LIKE
SCIENCE AS MUCH WHEN ITS
NOT PROGRESSING.
"Townley, voice-over:
THE BOTTOM LINE IS,"
I HIT A DROP-OUT PERIOD.
"YEAH, IT WAS TOUCH AND
GO THERE FOR A WHILE."
"I WENT FOR 3 MONTHS, YOU
KNOW, JUST WANDERING AROUND."
I DIDNT DO ANY
EXPERIMENTS FOR MONTHS.
NO SENSE OF JOY
ABOUT WHAT IM DOING.
I COULD QUIT.
"YOU KNOW, I WOULD PROBABLY
HAVE A WONDERFUL LIFE,"
"YOU KNOW, BUT LIKE THEY
SAY, NO MATTER WHERE YOU GO,"
"NO MATTER WHERE
I GO, THERE I AM."
Shapiro: ...CYTOPLASMIC
DOMAIN TO SHOW
THAT THIS IS IMPORTANT.
THATS--IM REALLY
EXCITED WITH THAT.
WHATS THE QUESTION?
WHAT DO YOU HOPE TO FIND OUT?
"OH, OH, CAN YOU MAKE A COMPLEX
AND CO-CRYSTALLIZE IT?"
YOU KNOW--
WHAT?
YOU KNOW.
ROB DOESNT THINK
THATS IMPORTANT.
WHY IS IT IMPORTANT?
"WELL, TO RATIONALLY DESIGN
DRUGS, YOU NEED TO KNOW THE"
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE ACTIVE
AND INACTIVE FORMS IN ORDER TO
TARGET THEM.
"WHOO, MAN. THATS
A GREAT ANSWER."
"THANK YOU, PROFESSOR."
HA HA HA!
"YOURE SUCH A TOUGH MOFO,
ROB, YOU KNOW THAT?"
"Cubberley, voice-over: ITS BEEN
A HARD YEAR, AND I IMAGINE"
THAT THIS HARD YEAR IS
GONNA STICK IN MY PSYCHE
FOR A WHILE.
"YOU CAN, LIKE, KIND
OF DECIDE NOT TO GO"
"TO GRAD SCHOOL, AND THATS
A LEGITIMATE DECISION."
"IF YOU FIND A JOB MAKING
LOTS OF MONEY, LIKE, WHY"
"NOT, RIGHT?"
"Ph.D., SHMEEh.D., BUT FROM
OUR PERSPECTIVE, IF WE LEAVE,"
WERE QUITTERS.
THERES NO STEPPING BACK
ONCE YOUVE STARTED.
"WELL, THERE IS."
I STEPPED BACK TWICE. BUT YEAH.
RIGHT? YEAH.
[LAUGHTER]
I MEAN BUT YEAH.
"SO YEAH, THATS SORT OF THE
THING IS THAT NOW WERE INTO--"
"ITS LIKE, YOU KNOW, WERE
INTO THIS PROCESS, RIGHT?"
"AND NOW ALL THE WORKS
COME OUT, ALL THE DIRTY"
LAUNDRY IS OUT.
WE ALL PRETTY MUCH
KNOW WHO WE ALL ARE.
"I MEAN, AND LARRY
HAS--YOU KNOW WHO"
LARRY IS NOW TO SOME EXTENT.
ITS A RELATIONSHIP WHERE
YOU WANT THEM TO PRAISE YOU
OR WHATEVER.
YOU WANT THE PAT ON THE HEAD.
"YES, ITS ALMOST LIKE YOURE A
SINGER OR SOMETHING AND YOU"
NEED THE APPLAUSE.
"BUT ITS NOT SO CRAZY, RIGHT?"
"NO, IT ISNT."
YOUVE GOT SOMEONE WHOS
AN EXPERT IN THE FIELD.
THEYRE VERY GOOD AT
WHAT THEYRE DOING.
"AND I WANT TO BE
LARRY SOMEDAY,"
"IN AN SENSE, YOU KNOW?"
I WANT TO HAVE A LAB.
I WANT TO HAVE STUDENTS.
I WANT TO BE A PROF.
"Carroll, voice-over: IVE BEEN
HERE FOR OVER 4 1/2 YEARS NOW,"
ALMOST 5 YEARS.
IM 28.
"TWO MORE YEARS, ILL
BE A SEVENTH YEAR."
ILL BE 30.
"ITS NOT COOL TO BE A GRAD
STUDENT WHEN YOURE 30, RIGHT?"
"DONT TELL ROB THAT, BUT I
MEAN, IT REALLY--YOUVE KIND"
OF GOT TO BE MOVING FORWARD.
PLUS YOU FEEL TIME PRESSURE
FROM LARRY AND OTHER PEOPLE TO
"GET IT DONE AS QUICKLY
AS POSSIBLE, BUT MOST"
OF THE PRESSURE IS COMING
FROM ME AND FROM MY FIANCEE.
"SHES LIKE, ""WHEN ARE YOU
GONNA GET A JOB?"" AND YOU"
"KNOW, ""HOW IS THIS LIFE
LEADING TOWARD SOMETHING THAT"
"WERE BOTH WORKING TOWARD?""
AND YOU SHRUG YOUR SHOULDERS"
"AND YOURE LIKE, ""IM
DOING THE BEST I CAN."""
"AND THEN SHE KEEPS PUSHING
YOU, AND THEN YOU HAVE FIGHT"
AFTER FIGHT.
"Shapiro, voice-over: HAVING A
JOB AS A SCIENTIST IS--IT PUTS"
YOU OUT ON THE
FRINGES OF SOCIETY.
THERE ARENT MANY OF US.
"ART AND SCIENCE REALLY ARE
MATES, HAND IN HAND, DIFFERENT"
"ASPECTS OF VERY SIMILAR
PURSUITS, AND I THINK THAT"
MOST PEOPLE DONT
UNDERSTAND THAT.
IF I TELL PEOPLE THAT I DO
SOMETHING CREATIVE AND THEN
"LATER TELL THEM THAT IM A
SCIENTIST, THEY THINK THAT"
IVE CONTRADICTED MYSELF.
"AND THATS, UH..."
IT WOULD BE MORE COMFORTABLE
IF PEOPLE UNDERSTOOD THAT
A LITTLE BIT BETTER.
"Carroll, voice-over: THERE
ARE MOMENTS WHERE YOURE SORT"
OF IMMERSED IN
WHATEVER YOURE DOING.
YOU HAVE THOSE MOMENTS WHERE
YOU STEP BACK AND YOU SEE
"YOURSELF--NOT SEE YOURSELF,
BUT WHEN YOU STEP BACK AND YOU"
"SEE YOUR DATA AND LOOK AT IT
IN A NEW LIGHT, THEN I THINK"
THOSE ARE GOOD MOMENTS.
"THOSE ARE MOMENTS
OF GROWTH, I GUESS."
YOURE SEEING THINGS BIGGER
THAN YOU NORMALLY SEE THEM.
YOURE SEEING THINGS
FROM THE OUTSIDE.
[THUNDER]
"Townley, voice-over:
EVERYBODY HERE IS ON MY SIDE."
"THERES NOBODY HERE TO
REBEL AGAINST, AND IM"
"DONE, MAN."
"IM GOING STRAIGHT FOR
THIS THING, YOU KNOW?"
IM NOT GONNA ACT
LIKE A CHILD ANYMORE.
"AMPK. THIS IS A VERY, VERY
SOPHISTICATED DEVICE,"
AND ITS PROPERTIES ARE
NEVER PROPERLY GOING TO BE
UNDERSTOOD UNTIL WE CAN
SEE WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE.
"Townley, voice-over: LARRY HAS
ALWAYS GIVEN ME AN INDICATION"
THAT HE FELT LIKE I COULD DO IT.
HE BELIEVES IN PEOPLE.
HE DOES BELIEVE IN US.
"Carroll, voice-over: ONE OF
THE BEST PARTS ABOUT THE JOB"
IS THAT YOURE
CONSTANTLY LEARNING.
"EVERY DAY, LEARNING SOMETHING
PUTS A NEW TOOL IN YOUR BELT,"
SOMETHING ELSE THAT YOU CAN
BRING TO A NEW PROBLEM.
ITS NOT JUST MY DATA THAT
ENRICHES THIS EXPERIENCE.
"I MEAN, ROB HAS
BEEN SITTING ACROSS"
"FROM ME, WORKING HERE, AND
HES DONE MANY EXPERIMENTS"
"THAT I NEVER WOULD HAVE THOUGHT
TO DO, AND THEYVE TURNED"
OUT TO BE REALLY USEFUL.
"Townley, voice-over: SO IVE
HAD THIS IDEA TO USE AMPK FROM"
PRIMITIVE SPECIES IN THE
EVOLUTIONARY CHAIN--YEAST
INSTEAD OF HUMAN.
"YEAST AMPK MUST HAVE THE SAME
METABOLIC FUNCTION TO PERFORM,"
"BUT BEING PRIMITIVE, IT MIGHT
BE EASIER TO CRYSTALLIZE."
ITS JUST SUCH A BEAUTIFUL IDEA.
NATURE HAS DONE THE
EXPERIMENTS FOR US.
"YOU KNOW, THEYVE--YOU
KNOW, THEYVE TRIED ALL"
THE COMBINATIONS THROUGHOUT
MILLIONS AND MILLIONS
AND HUNDREDS OF
MILLIONS OF YEARS.
ITS LIKE NATURES NOTEBOOK.
"I WENT INTO NATURES NOTEBOOK,
AND I GOT--I GOT A NEW RESULT."
HOWS IT GOING?
"WELL, SO THERES A--SO--"
SLIGHT PROBLEM.
"WELL, ITS NOT TOO BAD."
THEYRE KIND OF
STUCK TO THE BOTTOM.
GOOD NEWS AND BAD NEWS.
GOOD NEWS AND BAD NEWS?
ILL GIVE YOU THE BAD NEWS FIRST.
THEYRE KIND OF STUCK TO
THE BOTTOM OF THE PLATE.
THATS THE BAD NEWS.
THE GOOD NEWS IS THAT
THEYRE CLEARLY PROTEIN.
YEAH.
CLEARLY PROTEIN.
"SO ANYWAYS, HERE-- HOLD ON."
[INDISTINCT]
BUT HERE. HAVE A LOOK.
Shapiro: HOPEFULLY THIS
WILL BE ENOUGH TO TELL
US AT LEAST WHETHER
"WERE ON THE RIGHT TRACK,
WHETHER WERE GONNA GET"
DIFFRACTION OUT OF THESE.
BUT THEYRE DEFINITELY PROTEIN
BECAUSE THEYRE TOO UGLY TO BE
ANYTHING ELSE.
[CHEERING]
YEAH!
"Townley, voice-over: IT REALLY
IS A FANTASTIC ACCOMPLISHMENT"
TO HAVE WORKED ON SOMETHING
FOR 4 YEARS AND THEN TO
"FINALLY, FINALLY
GET IT, RIGHT?"
"LIKE, IT WAS SWEET."
Men: THE GODS CAN HEAR ME SING
FROM INSIDE THE BASEMENT
ITS GOOD TO BE KING
AH
KING OF THE PAVEMENT
OUR FRIENDSHIP IS PURE
LIKE LIGHT INSIDE POURING
I KNEW YOU BEFORE
"YO, MAN. WERE GETTING CLOSE."
Men: BUT NEVER IN THE MORNING
ITS GOOD TO BE KING
KING OF THE PAVEMENT
BUT YOU CANT KISS MY RING
AH
DOWN IN THE BASEMENT
OUR SPIRITS WERE SOARING
"Townley, voice-over: THE
METAPHOR HAS BEEN BEATEN TO"
"DEATH, BUT WHEN I HAVE
EXPERIENCES AND HAVE SUCCESS"
"IN CLIMBING, I
BRING IT TO WORK."
"IM LIKE, ""YOU
KNOW, I CAN DO THIS."
"""I CAN DO THE NEXT
THING,"" YOU KNOW."
"THATS WHERE IM AT
WITH MY Ph.D., MAN."
IM ONE PITCH BELOW THE SUMMIT.
"Townley: THE CRYSTALS WERE
BEAUTIFUL, BUT I COULD EASILY"
"SEE SOMEBODY PUBLISH THEIR
WORK, WHICH WILL MAKE MY"
WORK IRRELEVANT.
YOUR WORK DONE BY SOMEONE ELSE.
"THATS RIGHT--IRRELEVANT,
TOTALLY MEANINGLESS."
"THAT WOULD SUCK, YEAH.
OH, THAT WOULD BE--"
THAT WOULD BEYOND SUCK.
"YEAH, I KNOW. SO
WERE NOT THERE YET."
"Shapiro, voice-over: ONCE YOU
GOT THE DATA, WHAT DO YOU"
DO WITH IT?
A STRUCTURE IS AN
AVALANCHE OF DATA.
WHERE DO YOU GO FROM THERE?
Townley: I THOUGHT THAT
I WOULD JUST GET THE DATA
"AND THEN LEAVE, BUT NOW
THERES THIS PROCESS OF TAKING"
THE DATA AND TRANSFORMING
IT INTO SOME SCIENTIFIC
CONCEPT OR IDEA.
HOW DO I DO IT FOR
THE--I GUESS--THIS IS
THE MOST UNSATISFIED--
"JUST WORRY ABOUT THE MOST
UNSATISFIED, AND THEN WELL"
SEE IT IN FUTURE ROUNDS.
"ALL RIGHT, IM JUST
GONNA FILL IT."
"IM--I WANT IT TO BE RIGHT,
AND I KEEP GOING BACK"
"AND FORTH, AND IM NOT
MAKING ANY PROGRESS."
"NEXT ROUND, NEXT
ROUND, NEXT ROUND."
"Shapiro, voice-over: WERE NOT
GOING TO RUSH INTO PUBLISHING"
"BEFORE WE UNDERSTAND WHAT WE
WANT TO PUBLISH, BUT WE ARE"
GOING TO MOVE AS FAST AS WE
POSSIBLY CAN JUST TO MAKE SURE
THAT WE GET THERE FIRST.
"I MEAN, IMAGINE,
YOU KNOW, SOMEBODY"
"COULD HAVE A SIMILAR THING
LIKE THIS, AND THEN IN THAT"
"CASE, THIS IS JUST NO
LONGER OF INTEREST, REALLY."
CAN YOU IMAGINE?
"YOU KNOW, YOUR 5 YEARS OF DAY
AND NIGHT WORK, AND ITS JUST,"
"""OOP. MISSED THAT. SORRY."""
"Townley, voice-over: MOST OF
THE TIME, YOURE IN A FOG."
YOU DONT--
ITS VERY CONFUSING.
YOURE SORT OF ON THE FRONTIER.
ITS DIFFICULT.
"ITS COMPLICATED, AND YOURE
STUMBLING AROUND IN THE DARK."
Shapiro: WHAT ROB IS LOOKING
AT ON THE SCREEN--THERE ARE
"9,073 ATOMS, AND THATS WHY
THERES SO MUCH DATA IN THIS,"
BECAUSE WE ARE ACTUALLY
FINDING THE 3-DIMENSIONAL
"POSITION OF, IN THIS
CASE, OVER 9,000 ATOMS."
"THIS FILE, WHICH HAS 10,000
LINES OF DATA IN IT,"
IS A DESCRIPTION OF
THAT MOLECULE THAT HE
IS MANIPULATING.
THIS IS A VERY INTENSE TIME.
TO SEE THE MOLECULE BEGIN TO
REVEAL ITS SECRETS IN FRONT
OF YOU IS A PRETTY
STUNNING THING.
"WHEN THINGS ARE WORKING THE
RIGHT WAY, WE HAVE THESE"
MOMENTS WHEN WE DISCOVER
THINGS ABOUT NATURE AND WE
UNDERSTAND SOMETHING REALLY
ETERNAL THAT NOBODY ELSE HAS
UNDERSTOOD BEFORE.
"Townley: ALL RIGHT, YEAH."
"YEAH, OH, YEAH."
IM THE ONLY ONE ON
EARTH WHO KNOWS THIS.
YEAH. OH.
THIS IS ME AND LARRYS PAPER.
TOGETHER HE AND I HAVE SOLVED
THE STRUCTURE OF THIS REALLY
"IMPORTANT MOLECULE, OF WHICH,
YOU KNOW, THERES ONLY ONE"
"OF THEM, AND WE GOT IT."
"Shapiro: THE TOP FIGURE IS
AMP, AND WHEN THIS BINDS,"
"THIS LIGAND IN RED, WHITE,
AND BLUE, THE PROTEIN GETS"
TURNED ON.
THE ENZYME ACTIVITY
IS TURNED ON.
"WHEN THE LOWER ONES BIND,
ATP GETS TURNED OFF."
ITS A SWITCH FROM EITHER
BURNING FAT FOR EXERCISE OR
"FOR THOUGHT OR FOR
REPRODUCTION, OR YOU"
STORE FAT.
"ON, OFF."
THAT LITTLE TINY SWITCH.
"Carroll: WE ENDED OUR
ENGAGEMENT, WHICH I THINK IS"
PROBABLY A REALLY GOOD
THING FOR BOTH OF US.
WE BOTH SORT OF DECIDED THAT
IT WAS BETTER FOR US NOT TO
"CONTINUE AND GET
MARRIED, AT LEAST."
Shapiro: ACADEMIA IS
BUILT FOR MAKING BASIC
"DISCOVERIES, AND..."
"Carroll, voice-over: IM
THINKING ABOUT 6 MONTHS,"
7 MONTHS TILL GRADUATION.
WERE BOTH HAPPY WITH THE
PROGRESS THAT WEVE MADE
"ON THIS PROJECT, AND I
FEEL AND HE FEELS THAT IM"
READY TO GO.
"OH, YEAH. GO WITH THE PROS."
GO WITH THE PROS.
"I MEAN, PEOPLE HAVE TOLD ME..."
"Carroll, voice-over:
IVE REALLY BEEN THINKING"
ABOUT WHAT I WANT TO DO NEXT.
"AT THIS POINT, IVE COMPLETELY
RULED OUT ACADEMIC SCIENCE,"
AND I THINK IF IM DOING
SOMETHING WHERE I CAN MERGE
"BUSINESS AND SCIENCE, THAT
WOULD BE IDEAL BECAUSE I"
STILL REALLY LIKE SCIENCE.
I JUST DONT KNOW THAT IT
HOLDS EVERYTHING FOR ME
IN THE LONG TERM.
Cubberley: SO IVE OFFICIALLY
LEFT THE Ph.D. PROGRAM
AT COLUMBIA.
"IT WAS A PRETTY HARD DECISION,
AND IVE BEEN STRUGGLING"
"WITH IT FOR A WHILE,
FOR PROBABLY A YEAR."
IM WORKING AT A COMPANY
IN A SUBURB OF NEW YORK.
ITS A SMALL BIOTECH.
IM SORT OF IN THE
MIDDLE OF A PIPELINE.
"YOU KNOW, I COUNT ON SOMEONE
ELSE GIVING ME THINGS,"
AND THEN I NEED TO WORK ON
THAT AND DO THE EXPERIMENTS
AND ANALYZE THE DATA AND THEN
PASS THAT INFORMATION ON TO
THE NEXT PERSON.
"SO I HAVE GIVEN UP
INDEPENDENCE FOR, YOU KNOW,"
"PRODUCTIVITY, BUT ITS--AND
IN A LOT OF WAYS, THAT IS THE"
"DEFINITION OF
THE Ph.D., RIGHT?"
"BEING AN INDEPENDENT
SCIENTIST, AND I COULD DROP"
"THAT IN A HEARTBEAT, SO IT
ENDED UP BEING AN ABSOLUTE"
PERFECT DECISION FOR ME.
"I FEEL MY CHEEKS THAT IVE
BEEN, YOU KNOW, JUST LIKE,"
I CANT HELP SMILING
ALL THE TIME.
WELCOME TO THE THESIS
DEFENSE OF ROB TOWNLEY.
"THIS IS ABOUT THE BIGGEST
AUDIENCE IVE EVER SEEN,"
"I THINK, FOR A THESIS
DEFENSE AT COLUMBIA."
"IM NOT SURE WHY, BUT--"
[LAUGHTER]
"ALL RIGHT. SO MY NAMES ROB
TOWNLEY, AND IM A STUDENT"
"IN THE LABORATORY OF DR. LARRY
SHAPIRO, AND TODAY IM GONNA"
TELL YOU ABOUT VISUALIZING
METABOLIC CONTROL.
THE AMP-ACTIVATED PROTEIN
KINASE IS REALLY THE FEDERAL
RESERVE BOARD CHAIRMAN
OF THE CELLULAR ECONOMY.
WHAT I WANTED TO DO BY SOLVING
THESE CRYSTAL STRUCTURES WAS
TO TRY TO GET AT THE MECHANISM
OF ACTIVATION AND REPRESSION
OF THIS METABOLIC
CONTROL SWITCH.
AS SOON AS WE HAVE AN
IMBALANCE IN THE DEMAND
"AND SUPPLY RATIO DUE TO,
FOR EXAMPLE, EXERCISE OR"
"HYPOXIA OR NUTRIENT
DEPRIVATION, THEN"
"AMP-ACTIVATED PROTEIN KINASE
BECOMES IN THE ""ON"" STATE."
"Carroll: IF HE DOESNT PASS,
WE HAVE TO PUT ALL THIS BACK"
IN A BIG HURRY.
"YEAH, A VERY BIG HURRY."
HA HA HA!
JUST HOPE HE MAKES IT.
"Woman: YO, HES HERE!"
Townley: HYAH!
YAY!
[CHEERING AND APPLAUSE]
"HEY, GUYS."
"TAKE YOUR COATS OFF.
STAY A WHILE, MAN."
THANKS.
ARRIBA!
"AH, MAN."
IM A DOCTOR NOW.
YEAH!
"THANKS, MAN."
HAPPY?
YAY!
WHOO!
MRS. TOWNLEY.
DR. AND MRS. TOWNLEY.
CONGRATULATIONS.
IM SO PROUD OF YOU.
"THANK YOU. THATS WHAT
I WANT TO HEAR, MAN."
"YEAH, MY WIFE IS EXPECTING."
GOOD.
YEAH.
A LITTLE ROB.
"A LITTLE ROBBIE OR A
LITTLE CLAIRE, YOU KNOW?"
GIVE OR TAKE.
"HEY, DO YOU KNOW
HOW TO DO THE TANGO?"
NO.
"Townley, voice-over: ILL
ALWAYS CREDIT THE TIME THAT I"
WAS IN LARRYS LAB AS THE
PERIOD WHEN I REALLY BECAME
"A SCIENTIST, AND IT
FEELS REALLY GOOD."